index.md, before:

# About me
I am a research associate at the Jozef Stefan Institute (since August 2025).

My work focuses on developing and analyzing numerical algorithms for partial differential equations (PDEs) arising in advanced multiphysics problems that carry significant societal relevance, such as in climate, biomedical, and energy applications.

I aim to improve the robustness and reliability of various computational methods by bridging numerical and functional analysis.

# Research interests
- Stability of coupled and multiphysics PDE models.
- Maximum time-step size estimation.
- Well-posedness of mixed PDE problems.

# Previous employments
- Postdoc at Department of Mathematics, Stockholm University. (2023-2025)
- Sr. Software and Algorithm developer at Qamcom Research and Technology (2022-2023)
- Doctoral candidate at Division of Scientific Computing, Uppsala University. (2017-2022)

# Education
- (2017-2022) Ph.D. Scientific Computing with specialization in Numerical Analysis, Uppsala University, Sweden.
- (2014-2017) M.Sc. Computational Science and Engineering, Technical University Munich, Germany.
- (2011-2014) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia.

# Publications
1. Stability analysis of the free-surface Stokes problem and an unconditionally stable explicit scheme. Preprint. 2025
1. Well-posedness of the Stokes problem under modified pressure Dirichlet boundary conditions. BIT Numerical Mathematics. 2025.
1. Weak form Shallow Ice Approximation models with an improved time step restriction. Journal of Glaciology. 2025.
1. Stability estimates for radial basis function methods applied to linear scalar conservation laws. Applied Mathematics and Computation, 2025.
1. An RBF partition of unity method for geometry reconstruction and PDE solution in thin structures. Preprint, 2024.
1. Meshfree RBF–FD methods for numerical simulation of PDE problems. Journal of Physics, 2024.
1. Residual viscosity stabilized RBF-FD methods for solving nonlinear conservation laws. Journal of Scientific Computing, 2022.
1. An unfitted radial basis function generated finite difference method applied to thoracic diaphragm simulations. Journal of Computational Physics, 2022.
1. A least squares radial basis function finite difference method with improved stability properties. SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing, 2021.
1. An unfitted RBF-FD method in a least-squares setting for elliptic PDEs on complex geometries. Journal of Computational Physics, 2021.
1. A first meshless approach to simulation of the elastic behaviour of the diaphragm. Springer, Lecture notes in Computational Science and Engineering, 2020.

# Teaching
* Lecturer, Numerical Analysis I, Spring 2024. Stockholm Univ.
* Lecturer, Programming for Physicists, Autumn 2023. Stockholm Univ.
* Lecturer, Scientific Computing III (PDEs: FDM and FEM, Linear systems: iterative methods), Winter 2021. Uppsala Univ.
* Lecturer, Programming in Python, Autumn 2020. Uppsala Univ.
* Lecturer, Scientific Computing bridging course (Linear systems, ODEs), Autumn 2020. Uppsala Univ.
* Teaching assistant, Scientific Computing II (ODEs), Spring 2019. Uppsala Univ.
* Teaching assistant, Scientific Computing II, Winter 2018. Uppsala Univ.
* Teaching assistant, Computer lab, 2012-2014. University of Ljubljana, Dept. Mathematics and Physics.

# Master Thesis supervision
- Gregor Kovač (ongoing), Accelerating numerical methods for solving Navier-Stokes equations with physics-informed machine learning, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia.

# Bachelor Thesis supervision
- Nasiha Häfener, Stabilizing Glacier Simulations: Coupling Free-Surface Stabilization Algorithm to the Positivity Preserving Surface Constraint in FeniCS, Stockholm University, Sweden.
- Joakim Heumann, A Machine Learning Model Predicting Errors in Simplified Continental Ice Sheet Simulations, KTH, Sweden.

# Conferences
- Multiphysics and mixed-dimensional modeling and discretizations, Oslo, November 2025, invited talk.
- Opening Conference for Mathematical Challenges in Brain Mechanics, Oslo, August 2025, no talk.
- BIT '65 conference, Uppsala, January 2025, talk.
- Scientific Computing in Sweden, Stockholm, September 2024, talk.
- FEniCS 2024, Oslo, June 2024, contributed talk **(best postdoc talk prize)**.
- ESCO 2024, Pilsen, June 2024, invited minisymposium talk.
- EGU Nordic Branch, Helsinki, November 2023, contributed talk.
- SIAM CSE22, Online, July 2022, invited minisymposium talk.
- DWCAA 21, Online, September 2021, talk **(best talk prize)**.
- ICOSAHOM 20/21, Online, July 2021, contributed talk.
- SIAM CSE21, Online, March 2021, contributed talk.
- DRWA 19, Alba di Canazei, Italy, September 2019, talk.
- SIAM CSE19, Spokane, USA, February 2019, invited minisymposium talk.
- WCCM 18, New York, USA, July 2018, invited minisymposium talk.
- ICOSAHOM 18, London, UK, July 2018, invited minisymposium talk.
- Kernel-Based PDE methods, ICERM, Providence, USA, July 2017, poster.

# Journal referee work
- Applied Mathematics and Computation.
- Computers and Mathematics,
- Communications on Applied Mathematics and Computation,
- Journal of Computational Physics,
- Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements.

# Service to the community
- Co-organizer of Seminar in Numerical Analysis (KTH + Stockholm University). (2023 - 2024)
- SIAM Student chapter (Uppsala) officer:
    - Vice-President (2017-2018),
    - Secretary (2019-2022).

Commit message:

Update index.md with news and title changes
Added recent news and updated title in the About section.

index.md, after:

# News
2025-12-24: I received habilitation "Docent in Mathematics" from Faculty of Mathematics and Physics at University of Ljubljana.
2025-12-23: Grant application approved. I will be PI of project "Stabilizing multiphysics simulations for cost-effective and reliable metal processing".

# About me
I am a research associate (Docent) at the Jozef Stefan Institute.

My work focuses on developing and analyzing numerical algorithms for partial differential equations (PDEs) arising in advanced multiphysics problems that carry significant societal relevance, such as in climate, biomedical, and energy applications.

I aim to improve the robustness and reliability of various computational methods by bridging numerical and functional analysis.

# Research interests
- Stability of coupled and multiphysics PDE models.
- Maximum time-step size estimation.
- Well-posedness of mixed PDE problems.

# Previous employments
- Postdoc at Department of Mathematics, Stockholm University. (2023-2025)
- Sr. Software and Algorithm developer at Qamcom Research and Technology (2022-2023)
- Doctoral candidate at Division of Scientific Computing, Uppsala University. (2017-2022)

# Education
- (2017-2022) Ph.D. Scientific Computing with specialization in Numerical Analysis, Uppsala University, Sweden.
- (2014-2017) M.Sc. Computational Science and Engineering, Technical University Munich, Germany.
- (2011-2014) B.Sc. Electrical Engineering, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia.

# Publications
1. Stability analysis of the free-surface Stokes problem and an unconditionally stable explicit scheme. Preprint. 2025
1. Well-posedness of the Stokes problem under modified pressure Dirichlet boundary conditions. BIT Numerical Mathematics. 2025.
1. Weak form Shallow Ice Approximation models with an improved time step restriction. Journal of Glaciology. 2025.
1. Stability estimates for radial basis function methods applied to linear scalar conservation laws. Applied Mathematics and Computation, 2025.
1. An RBF partition of unity method for geometry reconstruction and PDE solution in thin structures. Preprint, 2024.
1. Meshfree RBF–FD methods for numerical simulation of PDE problems. Journal of Physics, 2024.
1. Residual viscosity stabilized RBF-FD methods for solving nonlinear conservation laws. Journal of Scientific Computing, 2022.
1. An unfitted radial basis function generated finite difference method applied to thoracic diaphragm simulations. Journal of Computational Physics, 2022.
1. A least squares radial basis function finite difference method with improved stability properties. SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing, 2021.
1. An unfitted RBF-FD method in a least-squares setting for elliptic PDEs on complex geometries. Journal of Computational Physics, 2021.
1. A first meshless approach to simulation of the elastic behaviour of the diaphragm. Springer, Lecture notes in Computational Science and Engineering, 2020.

# Teaching
* Lecturer, Numerical Analysis I, Spring 2024. Stockholm Univ.
* Lecturer, Programming for Physicists, Autumn 2023. Stockholm Univ.
* Lecturer, Scientific Computing III (PDEs: FDM and FEM, Linear systems: iterative methods), Winter 2021. Uppsala Univ.
* Lecturer, Programming in Python, Autumn 2020. Uppsala Univ.
* Lecturer, Scientific Computing bridging course (Linear systems, ODEs), Autumn 2020. Uppsala Univ.
* Teaching assistant, Scientific Computing II (ODEs), Spring 2019. Uppsala Univ.
* Teaching assistant, Scientific Computing II, Winter 2018. Uppsala Univ.
* Teaching assistant, Computer lab, 2012-2014. University of Ljubljana, Dept. Mathematics and Physics.

# Master Thesis supervision
- Gregor Kovač (ongoing), Accelerating numerical methods for solving Navier-Stokes equations with physics-informed machine learning, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia.

# Bachelor Thesis supervision
- Nasiha Häfener, Stabilizing Glacier Simulations: Coupling Free-Surface Stabilization Algorithm to the Positivity Preserving Surface Constraint in FeniCS, Stockholm University, Sweden.
- Joakim Heumann, A Machine Learning Model Predicting Errors in Simplified Continental Ice Sheet Simulations, KTH, Sweden.

# Conferences
- Multiphysics and mixed-dimensional modeling and discretizations, Oslo, November 2025, invited talk.
- Opening Conference for Mathematical Challenges in Brain Mechanics, Oslo, August 2025, no talk.
- BIT '65 conference, Uppsala, January 2025, talk.
- Scientific Computing in Sweden, Stockholm, September 2024, talk.
- FEniCS 2024, Oslo, June 2024, contributed talk **(best postdoc talk prize)**.
- ESCO 2024, Pilsen, June 2024, invited minisymposium talk.
- EGU Nordic Branch, Helsinki, November 2023, contributed talk.
- SIAM CSE22, Online, July 2022, invited minisymposium talk.
- DWCAA 21, Online, September 2021, talk **(best talk prize)**.
- ICOSAHOM 20/21, Online, July 2021, contributed talk.
- SIAM CSE21, Online, March 2021, contributed talk.
- DRWA 19, Alba di Canazei, Italy, September 2019, talk.
- SIAM CSE19, Spokane, USA, February 2019, invited minisymposium talk.
- WCCM 18, New York, USA, July 2018, invited minisymposium talk.
- ICOSAHOM 18, London, UK, July 2018, invited minisymposium talk.
- Kernel-Based PDE methods, ICERM, Providence, USA, July 2017, poster.

# Journal referee work
- Applied Mathematics and Computation.
- Computers and Mathematics,
- Communications on Applied Mathematics and Computation,
- Journal of Computational Physics,
- Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements.

# Service to the community
- Co-organizer of Seminar in Numerical Analysis (KTH + Stockholm University). (2023 - 2024)
- SIAM Student chapter (Uppsala) officer:
    - Vice-President (2017-2018),
    - Secretary (2019-2022).
